#Why Should We Care About Web Accessibility?

Following on from our introduction, we spoke about making our sites and applications Perceivable, Operable, Understandable and Robust. This means trying to create the perfect accessible digital experience:

Usable by everyone ...
... on any user agent (software)
... on any kind of device
... with any speed of connection
... in any environment

And the glaring question is: Why? Why should we care?

There are a huge number of reasons but we're going to focus on 4 main ideas.

Number 1:
There are just so many of us. There are around 7 billion people on the planet today and it's estimated that between 10 and 20% of those are living with a disability. Right now in 2016, the Internet remains a mystery for 70% of the world's population. But this is all about to change. By the end of this decade the majority of individuals will be online.

Number 2:
Search Engines.
Even though we are talking about billions of human beings, the most frequent visitors to most websites aren't human at all. They are machines, in the form of search engine robots. And when you think about, the search engine itself has severe disabilities: it can't see, it can't hear, it has the cognitive ability of perhaps a 5 year old. And yet the majority of online activity begins with the search. So if we want good SEO & high search rankings, that starts with creating an accessible web presence.

Number 3:
Human Resources.
Number 3 is about human resources. It's about our colleagues, workplaces etc... If you, as a business owner, want to attract the best people available you don't want to lose out on perhaps 25% of the potential people that could be working for your organisation. We want everyone to be able to collaborate in a way that's effective. And so we want our presence to be accessible as well.

Number 4:
Regulation.
The fourth and final reason is a regulatory one. More and more jurisdictions around the world are making and passing laws and regulations saying you must make sure your web site maintains a minimum level of standards on web #a11y, document #a11y and pdf #a11y. Whether or not you live in a region where laws have already been passed, where litigation is becoming more popular, it's good business sense to keep ahead of web accessibility.
